hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language in this live class I'm going to
talk to you about some essential
vocabulary that you need for IELTS
academic writing task one because
imagine on test day you look down at
your paper and you see something like
this
what vocabulary are you going to use to
describe all of these different trends
right that's why I want to show you in
this live class but before we do that
let's talk about how you actually scored
in the IELTS test because vocabulary is
critical okay so you're scored on four
things in your IELTS test the IELTS
examiner's look at these four things
right and one of them is called lexical
resource which but simply means
vocabulary right so let's go through how
you're scored specifically so if you get
an IELTS five out of nine for vocabulary
and means you have a limited range IELTS
six has an adequate range so slightly
better IELTS seven has a sufficient
range IELTS eight has a wide range in
IELTS nine has a wide range of natural
and sophisticated vocabulary
so these examiners are looking at the
words you're using in your writing and
deciding what level you are according to
the range right so I want to show you a
number of different words for describing
trends ok trends are the changes that
happen over time in a graph so again
let's say you're looking at this one how
are you going to describe this blue line
you're going to say it went up it's
probably not that sophisticated and
we're going to need to have a range of
different vocabulary that mean the same
thing as went up maybe you're going to
talk about the refined sugar and it went
down
you also need vocabulary to talk about
lines or trends that stay the same and
also lines and
that go up and down so let's have a look
at went up at first I'm going to teach
you a range of different words that you
can use on test day now your score you
can think about the words like this
verbs and nouns and let's say you have
the same word like increased right let's
say you're looking at this word
increased okay there's the verb and you
can see it's in the past tense and let's
say you also use the noun and increase
of here's the noun here that would
actually be counted as variety because
you've diffused different word forms
okay so that's just something to keep in
mind so you need to know the verb form
of the word and you need to know the
noun form of the word so for went up
increased is a good one
but you don't want to use that too many
times you could say grew escalated or
rose you don't want to use silly words
like shut up
rocketed or burnt because they're not
academic and if you want to use the noun
form here you can say an increase of or
the growth was or the escalation or a
rise of you don't want to use nouns such
as mushroom snowball or proliferation
they're just not academic enough fine
what about went down let's look at some
different words for went down decreased
is a good one declined fell diminished
these are nice verbs to use in the past
tense or the equivalent noun form would
be a decrease of a decline of or a full
of you don't want to use verbs like
shrank plummeted or died down because
they're not academic enough and you also
don't want to use really complicated
words like depletion because it's just
not precise or certainly not a slash
either a verb or a noun
cool what about if the lines stay the
same right what's some good language
some good vocabulary for this
well we can say they stabilized they
plateaued
they remained steady and here we have
the verb form with the noun remained
steady or remained stable and if you're
comparing say you've got that line down
the bottom let's go back and look at it
see this one here relatively relative to
the other lines and remained relatively
stable that's a really nice phrase there
if all the other lines are moving but
there's one line that's staying the same
and remained relatively stable you could
use the noun stability but it might be
difficult but a plateau would probably
be a better word there okay last one
what do we say about lines that are
going up and down what's some good
language good vocabulary that we can use
in our writing tasks one well fluctuated
is a nice one and you can also use the
noun form and talk about fluctuations
you can say that the number or amount of
whatever it is varied or differed and
perhaps you can talk about the
differences as a noun
okay these are both plural nouns
fluctuations with an S on the end and
differences with an S on the end cool
okay now we've got those key nouns and
verbs that's a good starting point but
now we want to get precise and the way
that we get precise in the way that we
talk about intensity or how much
something grew or declined is we use
adverbs we use adverbs of intensity okay
so we're going to talk about the
intensity of the trends so let's say
you've got this verb decreased well
maybe a decrease dramatically
have you decreased sharply substantially
considerably markedly or just slightly
these are critical adverbs that you want
to keep in mind for your writing task
one same as increased sharply escalated
considerably fluctuated well actually
just be careful because fluctuated
dramatically is okay you can't really
fluctuate sharply though you can
fluctuate substan
or considerably or markedly or even
fluctuate slightly that's fine just be
careful some of these combinations work
and some do not
what about rose markedly and fell
sharply that's a good collocation there
fell sharply alright it's quiz time I
want you to do a little quiz this will
take you two minutes please do it you
can have two minutes to choose a verb
and an adjective from down here to
complete the sentence in order to
complete the sentence though you'll
actually have to understand the graph
let's just go through it briefly so the
first one is to do with refined sugar
that's this red line here the next one
is the total amount of sugar that's the
blue line here see corn sweetener
dextrose and edible syrups and that
refers to these lines here what are they
doing and the final one d refined sugar
consumption from 1985 where are we here
from 1985 down to 2010 what happened to
that so please fill in two words each
using words from here put your answers
into the chat below by the way well I
should say if you're not yet a
subscriber to our ions channel click the
subscribe button every time we produce
and post a video you'll be notified on
your phone okay all right good luck you
have two minutes
you
all right how did you go
hopefully by using the correct verb
there are a few different answer options
actually but you should have been able
to look at that graph see the line see
it or what it was doing pick a verb pick
an appropriate adverb put them together
to describe what you're seeing precisely
okay this is ultimately what you are
graded on in this section of the test
cool let me show you my answers
I wrote refined it sugar decreased
significantly you can see the
significant decrease here until around
1986 you could have used declines you
could have used to decline sharply that
would also be correct or decreased
sharply that would also be correct be
the total amount of sugar consumption
rose sharply to 1984 also you could have
said that it well let's have a look
declined rose mmm Oh got two rose oh oh
I think I might have screwed this up I'm
sorry
that's okay let's keep going see corn
sweetener dextrose and edible syrups
remained relatively stable is a nice way
to say that and D from 1985 to 2010 so
we're talking about this line here
refined sugar from here to here what
happened to it well it declined slightly
didn't it it declined slightly or
decreased slightly or perhaps you could
even say something like decreased
marginally is also a nice adverb to use
anyway what I wanted to show you here
I'm sorry about my little mistake there
was that there are some key verbs that
you should memorize an on test day you
don't want to repeat the same word again
and again and again so really you just
need you know for synonyms for decrease
decline FAL etc you need a handful of
adverbs and you'll be fine on test day
because that's all you'll need to talk
about okay but there are those four
things there was the increase the
decrease the stabilization and the
fluctuation there are the four things
that you need to remember
handful of vocabulary you can do it you
can do it cool guys if you need any help
with your IELTS academic or whatever
tests you're taking actually check out e
to language comm you can sign up for
free and if you haven't yet subscribe to
our YouTube channel do click that button
now and yeah thanks for watching see you
soon
[Music]